---
title: "Simulated Saccadic Stimuli Suppress ON-Type Direction-Selective Retinal Ganglion Cells via Glycinergic Inhibition"
excerpt: "Journal of Neuroscience May 2019"
header:
  image: assets/images/F1.jpg
  teaser: assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-1-th.jpg
sidebar:
  - title: "Journal of Neuroscience"
    image: assets/images/jn_cover.jpg
    image_alt: "Issue Cover"
    text: "29 May 2019, Volume 39, Issue 22, Pages 4312-4322"
---
<br/>
*Benjamin Sivyer, **Alexander Tomlinson**, and W. Rowland Taylor*
<br/>

Two types of mammalian direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs), ON and ONOFF, operate over different speed ranges. 
The directional axes of the ON-DSGCs are thought to align with the axes of the vestibular system and provide 
sensitivity at rotational velocities that are too slow to activate the semicircular canals. ONOFF-DSGCs respond to 
faster image velocities. Using natural images that simulate the natural visual inputs to freely moving animals, we 
show that simulated visual saccades suppress responses in ON-DSGCs but not ONOFF-DSGCs recorded in retinas of 
domestic rabbits of either gender. Analysis of the synaptic inputs shows that this saccadic suppression results 
from glycinergic inputs that are specific to ON-DSGCs and are absent in ONOFF-DSGCs. When this glycinergic input 
is blocked, both cell types respond similarly to visual saccades and display essentially identical speed tuning. 
The results demonstrate that glycinergic circuits within the retina can produce saccadic suppression of retinal 
ganglion cell activity. The cell-type-specific targeting of the glycinergic circuits further supports the proposed 
physiological roles of ON-DSGCs in retinal-image stabilization and of ONOFF-DSGCs in detecting local object motion 
and signaling optical flow.


[https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3066-18.2019](https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3066-18.2019)